Machine learning is about extracting knowledge from data. It is a research field at the intersection of statistics, artificial intelligence, and computer science and is also known as predictive analytics or statistical learning. The application of machine learning methods has in recent years become ubiquitous in everyday life. From automatic recommendations of which movies to watch, to what food to order or which products to buy, to personalized online radio and recognizing your friends in your photos, many modern websites and devices have machine learning algorithms at their core. When you look at a complex website like Facebook, Amazon, or Netflix, it is very likely that every part of the site contains multiple machine learning models.

Traditional Programming Paradigm
Computers, while being extremely sophisticated and complex devices, are just another version of our well known idiot box, the television! "How can that be?" is a very valid question at this point. Let's consider a television or even one of the so-called smart TVs, which are available these days. In theory as well as in practice, the TV will do whatever you program it to do. It will show you the channels you want to see, record the shows you want to view later on, and play the applications you want to play! The computer has been doing the exact same thing but in a different way. Traditional programming paradigms basically involve the user or programmer to write a set of instructions or operations using code that makes the computer perform specific computations on data to give the desired results. Figure 1-1 depicts a typical workflow for traditional programming paradigms.

Why Machine Learning?
We will now address the question that started this discussion of why we need Machine Learning. Considering what you have learned so far, while the traditional programming paradigm is quite good and human intelligence and domain expertise is definitely an important factor in making data-driven decisions we need Machine Learning to make faster and better decisions. The Machine Learning paradigm tries to take into account data and expected outputs or results if any and uses the computer to build the program, which is also known as a model. This program or model can then be used in the future to make necessary decisions and give expected outputs from new inputs. Figure 1-2 shows how the Machine Learning paradigm is similar yet different from traditional programming paradigms.

Why Machine Learning ?
In the early days of "intelligent" applications, many systems used handcoded rules of "if" and "else" decisions to process data or adjust to user input. Think of a spam filter whose job is to move the appropriate incoming email messages to a spam folder. You could make up a blacklist of words that would result in an email being marked as spam. This would be an example of using an expert-designed rule system to design an "intelligent" application. Manually crafting decision rules is feasible for some applications, particularly those in which humans have a good understanding of the process to model. However, using handcoded rules to make decisions has two major disadvantages:
The logic required to make a decision is specific to a single domain and task. Changing the task even slightly might require a rewrite of the whole system.
Designing rules requires a deep understanding of how a decision should be made by a human expert.


Types of Machine learning
There are 4 types of machine learning:
Supervised (inductive) learning
- Given: training data + desired outputs (labels)
Unsupervised learning
- Given: training data (without desired outputs)
Semi-supervised learning
- Given: training data + a few desired outputs
Reinforcement learning
- Rewards from sequence of actions


SUPERVISED MACHINE LEARNING
Supervised learning is a machine learning technique that is widely used in various fields such as finance, healthcare, marketing, and more. It is a form of machine learning in which the algorithm is trained on labeled data to make predictions or decisions based on the data inputs.In supervised learning, the algorithm learns a mapping between the input and output data. This mapping is learned from a labeled dataset, which consists of pairs of input and output data. The algorithm tries to learn the relationship between the input and output data so that it can make accurate predictions on new, unseen data.
